[Music]
okay so are we talking about
narcissistic parents great question so
we are talking about
entitled parents and so this is the
first thing so let's talk about entitled
parents so what i
i want to do is explain a little bit
about my experience with
uh working with people who have entitled
parents and sort of how to understand
them
and what seems to work the first thing
that we're going to talk about is that a
narcissistic parent
an entitled and an entitled parent is
not
necessarily the same so oftentimes
entitlement and narcissism tend to
overlap
but i think about narcissism as
essentially a fragile sense of
internal self that requires a lot of
very careful outward appearance and
treatment to sort of maintain your
internal sense of self
so narcissists sort of take the like
take things in the world around them is
like personal insults
so if for example you're supposed to
pick me up from the airport and you get
a flat tire on the way
i will take that as a personal insult if
i am a narcissist well i'm not
necessarily but
oftentimes we'll take you know things
that have nothing to do with my life and
take them as
personal insults so it's like oh my god
you don't care about me enough to be on
time i waited so long
i've been waiting here for a long time
and there was this creepy person
and oh my god like i can't believe that
you would do this to me i would never do
this to you
so everything sort of becomes about the
relationship between me and you
even though it's like you got a flat
tire and you had to change your tire in
the rain like that sucks but
all i can kind of think about is myself
the other aspect of narcissism is also
that you have to maintain
an outwardly elevated sense of self
because you feel
insecure on the inside so you know i
can't be insulted
i can't i have to dress a particular way
people need to treat me a particular way
because that's how i know that i'm worth
something because on the inside
i'm afraid of of you know what my true
value is
so that's a little bit different from
entitled parents so in
entitled parents what we're really
thinking about is entitlement so
oftentimes they overlap
but entitlement is sort of about rights
right so it's like
i deserve x y and z
um and so oftentimes narcissism and
entitlement can go
hand in hand but what i really think
about in terms of entitled parents is
parents who don't respect boundaries
parents who don't respect autonomy
parents who don't
sort of give their kids choices and
respect their choices
that's what i think of as an entitled
parents
so i'm gonna give you guys just like one
example so i was working with a kid who
was south asian
um so growing up you know his parents
were very controlling
and also kind of very entitled and so
they would sort of regulate a lot of
what he
could or couldn't do they they started
him like
playing tennis at the age of like seven
started having him play
like chess in a musical instrument at
the age of like
eight or nine um maybe even younger
so he was sort of like this indian kid
and then in high school
you know they told him like okay here
are your career options
you're gonna you know we want you to
play chess we want you to play a musical
instrument
and you're gonna be a tennis athlete
those are gonna be your options
he sort of like was interested in
basketball and baseball and they're like
yeah we
you know literally the the what his
parents told him is
our people don't do that okay and so he
decided like they were like yeah like if
you you know we'd really like it if you
wanted to be a doctor but he wasn't
interested in being a doctor
so he ended up um becoming a studying cs
which was somewhat of an uphill battle
uh his parents didn't allow him to go to
prom so he wanted to go to prom and was
arguably dating a girl but they were
like no you're you're not
allowed to do that so they were just
really really
controlling and felt like they had the
right to make decisions for him
so they were also he was also a gamer
but they were very very strict
on what kind of uh you know gaming he
could do and
his mom would set like really really
firm limits so he goes off to college
has a little bit of a rough year or two
in terms of like
learning how to deal with his newfound
freedom parents were also quite
controlling in terms of like
mandating all kinds of random crap that
he really didn't adhere to because they
didn't have any power over him but
they're like you need to be you know
you can't no leaving your dorm past nine
o'clock
you need to be back at your dorm by nine
pm every single day
and they would like call him and and
things like that and if he didn't answer
they'd get pissed off
all this kind of stuff so like super
controlling felt like his choices were
not his own like his parents made his
choices for him
so he tried to sort of argue with them
about this stuff so like at many points
throughout his life he would like have
arguments with his parents and he'd say
things like this is not what i
want to do and they'd say like okay well
we don't care
right like you have to do what we tell
you to do because we're your parents and
you have to listen to us
and so something funny happened so
dad actually so mom was a stay-at-home
mom dad was
um lost his job during the pandemic
and so after he had been out of school
for one year
landed a pretty good job and still
parents were like pretty entitled pretty
you know would want him to call every
day and things like that so he goes home
and because his parents need help
sort of supporting the family and things
like that because his dad has lost his
job so he's essentially like paying the
parents bills
and you know he goes home and then he's
like gaming at night and his mom comes
in at like 10 p.m and she's like
it's too late and you should stop gaming
and he's like
i have a job like what are you
complaining about they get into a brief
argument
and then mom unplugs his pc
so what do you think he does at that
point
absolutely right so he doesn't rage
he moves out and so he's like
and because mom you know mom and dad are
kind of like there's like a brief
argument and there's this sort of like
my house my rules you have to respect
the rules of the house and he's like
okay
so if i have to adhere to your rules
living here i'm gonna move out
and so the next morning like overnight
like he doesn't say that so the next
like overnight he kind of packs his
stuff
and moves out and then parents are like
wait what you're moving out and then
he's like yeah i mean you said
your rules your house so i'm moving out
so i can live my life the way that i
want to parents start to panic there are
financial considerations
they're like oh no no like like
wait no don't do that don't do that like
we need your help like things like that
and he's like okay so if you need like
financial support
you know you guys raised me and stuff so
that's fine i'll like
i'll pay your bills for some amount of
time not a big deal but
i'm not going to live here and and so it
was a really kind of
interesting you know dynamic because
then like the parents were kind of
really shocked
and so as the conversation kind of went
on as i
i was working with him at the time and
so he started to have like a couple of
conversations with his parents
and and were actually able to bring his
parents around to a couple of things
because i don't think his parents sort
of realized what they were doing
i don't think they really understood the
power dynamics of the situation
i don't think they had accomplished what
they thought they had accomplished
they were shooting for obedience instead
of like understanding or any kind of
relationship
they wanted a robot for a son as opposed
to like a thinking
adult part of that is i think heavily
cultural but i sort of see it outside of
the south asian culture for sure
where people parents sort of expect
obedience they expect
you know that they are entitled to
um you know private communications that
their kid has
they are entitled to violate their kids
boundaries in space and determine what
they do and what they don't do
so what i'd like to do is just share
with you guys like a couple of ways to
think about entitled parents
if you guys have entitled parents how to
have conversations with them
and more importantly how not to have
conversations with them
and then ultimately hopefully try to do
your best to
build a relationship that is like
somewhat
healthy okay so the first thing to
understand
is entitled parents tend to be entitled
not because of like moral deficiencies
of character that are genetic
or intrinsic but honestly because of the
way that they were raised
so oftentimes if you think about a
particular parenting style
we learn what appropriate parenting is
by how we were parented
so in in this kid's case i mean this is
like a long it's like a whole
culture right so where like in the south
asian culture like
this is what you do you do this and then
you do this and then you do this
your parents even not even in extreme
cases i was about to say in extreme
cases
but even in quite common cases will
determine who you will marry
like i met someone in my neighborhood a
couple months ago and you know they were
telling me so they're my age
um and even a few years younger and they
were actually telling me that they met
their spouse like on the day of their
engagement
and hung out with them for a total of
about three hours before their wedding
so they met once for like an hour and a
half and they like saw each other twice
for like
an hour and then like half an hour so
this is kind of a culture that you come
from so
in the case of south asian stuff it's
like very cultural but we also find that
you know you don't have to be south
asian i've worked with a lot of people
who are caucasian a lot of people who
are black
a lot of people who are african-american
or even nigerian whose
parents are very very controlling and
very entitled
to their kids life and so what we tend
to find is that
the reason oftentimes the reason that
they are that way or one big reason is
because that's the way their parents
were with them
and so it's not to say that we shouldn't
hold people responsible
for their actions but at the same time
we should try to understand
where their actions are coming from
because if our goal is to build a
healthy relationship
understanding is just as important as
change
so then the next question becomes okay
so if they were raised to like kind of
think this way what do we do about that
and this is where we get into the first
problem that many people who are dealing
with entitled parents
make so many kids is that they try to
convince
so in my experience trying to convince
entitled parents of something
is generally speaking a waste of time so
don't try to justify
don't argue don't explain don't try to
bring them
to your way of thought because generally
speaking like it's gonna frustrate you
and like they're just not gonna do it so
instead the goal is to get them to think
okay not to convince them that you're
right but to get get them to sort of
like
question and examine their own beliefs
right so you're not trying to bring them
to where you are
we're just both going to look at their
viewpoint
so for example like you know this was a
conversa this was part of the
conversation you know
my patient had with his parents was so
he kind of talked to them and he was
like
so as as as he moved out he's like if
you guys need financial support that's
fine i'm just not going to live with you
and they felt like really hurt and
betrayed
and then he was kind of asking them like
you know what is our what is our
relationship right now so like
and this is where we use a technique
called going meta so you ask
them to think about or explain to you
what their
understanding of your relationship is so
you can start with a question of like
what is this relationship like what are
the rules of this relationship to you
how does this relationship work this is
where a lot of things like power
dynamics come in but it's essentially
like
you know just asking them like you know
how does this work
and it's kind of weird because most
entitled parents never
really think about the rules of the game
that they are teaching you
and it's my experience that once you
show them
and and once they realize the rules of
the game that they're playing
they no longer want to play it anymore i
know it sounds kind of weird but you
don't have to convince them of anything
you just have to point out the rules to
them
so it's kind of interesting because you
know it's sort of this idea that like
the parents were like well like you're
our son so you have to listen to us
and then and then so he he was kind of
saying well like i listened to you
because i didn't have a choice
like what do you guys think about that
you know
as soon as i have like and so this is
where a conversation often times a
conversation about
power dynamics comes in so this is a
question number one is like what are the
rules of this relationship like how does
our relationship work
second a second uh question is you know
what is the value of my opinion
in this relationship so you have a
particular opinion
i have a particular opinion how do we
decide
what to do so if we have a disagreement
on opinion this is not even talking
about anything specific it's not about
whether i can go to prom or not go to
prom it's just asking them
you know so in this relationship when i
believe one thing and you believe
something else
how do we decide which person to go with
and essentially what entitled parents
will come down to
is that it's a game of power dynamics
right i'm the parent
i'm the boss i pay the bills therefore i
get the decision
and this is where you really have a good
opportunity because if if that's the
situation you can't
really argue with them right so as you
are not financially independent as you
are dependent on their
on your parents you have to play by
their rules like it's it's going to be
really hard to change that
so you can acknowledge that power
dynamic but you also want to make it
clear to the parents
that if this is the way that the game is
being played that's fine
what do you think is going to happen
when i am no longer financially
dependent
right so if this is the rules of the
game is that like if if it's your house
and your rules
and and you know like we're just
trusting you because i don't
have an opinion or because you're the
adult and i'm a child in the
relationship
like that's fine but what happens when
we're both adults like
i'm not you know so you kind of like
point out the rules to them
and eventually kind of what we got to is
you know the parents sort of understood
this when like
their son was like yeah so what do you
guys expect
so this is another thing is ask the
parents so when dealing with entitled
parents i think a big
a big solution is to get them to think
about the evolution of your relationship
over time so this is kind of how how
this patient did and he's like
what are y'all expecting about you know
when i get married what do you guys
think is gonna happen
when i get married and they were like
well you know we'll have a big indian
wedding and he's like
why do you why would i why would i do
that
what makes you think that i'm going to
do that if we've determined that the
reason that i'm listening to you is
because you guys hold power over me
you no longer have that so why would i
listen to you anymore
and so then they were like what does
this mean does this mean that you're not
gonna get married and he's like no i may
get married but what do you guys
you know i'm gonna do what i feel like
but what are y'all envisioning about the
future of our relationship
are you guys envisioning that you will
come to my wedding
and this is the kind of thing where it's
like you know this can feel like an
attack
and it's kind of interesting because the
parents will perceive it as attack but
that's really not an attack so you don't
want to get upset
you don't want to convince you don't
want to punish your entitled parent you
just want to get them to think
what does this mean you're not going to
invite us to our wedding i didn't say
that
so this is where you guys can use
another meta technique which is like
asking the parent in the conversation
what did you hear me say
or what did you hear me ask and so
really what you want to do is don't try
to convince them of anything
genuinely try to understand their
expectations
and what we find is that as a lot of
these unthought
and unconsidered ideas come to the
surface
this is when we start to see entitled
behavior change
so as is the the kid genuinely sort of
is asking his parents like what are you
guys expecting
and what do you base that on and so this
is where like
remember step one is like what is the
nature of our relationship
when we have a disagreement how does the
decision get made
and what are you guys expecting our
relationship to look like in the future
right so these are kind of like the
three steps that you've got to take and
this is where like i've had this
conversation
so another person i worked with you know
had a very controlling mother was a
woman
and so she was sort of asking the
question of like you know
what's your understanding of like how
happy i've been as a kid growing up
what's your understanding of like what i
think about
you know how decisions make and like do
you understand that i find you to be
quite controlling
you know and they're like oh yeah but
it's it's for your you know it's it's
for your benefit like we're doing this
because like i know better
and so then you know this is a another
client of mine who's like so
mom like what's what's your expectation
about
your like how much you're gonna see your
grandchildren
and then like that she's like well of
course like i'm gonna like i'm gonna be
very involved and then
then this is where her daughter is like
well what makes you think that
you know it's kind of interesting
because like but i'm your mother
you're like yeah i understand you're my
mother but you know it seems that
most of our relationship seems to be
like quite one-sided
like you seem to determine the nature
and style of interaction
and you don't seem to respect my
opinions or really listen to what i'm
saying
and so i don't i don't want that kind of
person
in my in my kid's life and so then the
mom is like but
i but i i deserve like are you telling
me that i'm never going to be able to
see my grandkid
it's like well no i mean you'll be able
to see them but i don't want you to be a
big part of
their life if you're going to be like
this and so then like the then this is
where the parent is like well
but then like like what do you want me
to do like and so oftentimes what the
parents will do so when you kind of
get through to them okay so you're not
really saying that you're gonna
you're not like trying to convince them
of anything right it's just about
sort of laying a boundary and then
oftentimes what the parent will do is
we'll be like well like you know what
how how can i fix this like i'm
i'm sorry just tell me what i need to do
to make it better
and so this is where things get really
really tricky um so i'll give you guys
kind of a third example
so i had i had a a client who
parents wanted them to come home for the
holidays client really didn't want to
come home for the holidays was like yeah
i'm not comfortable coming home
i'm just i don't want to do that and and
then the parent was like well why don't
you want to do that you should come and
it gets into this argument about the
parent trying to convince them like come
home for the holidays come home for the
holidays like if you don't do this oh
your
your dad will be so disappointed and
everyone will wonder where you
are like you know your aunts they'll
start asking questions why isn't this
person home for the holidays
is everything okay like why don't you
just come home like everyone will like
that
they're like yeah i'm not interested in
that and so then then it kind of gets
into this situation where you're like
okay so then like how do you deal with
that and so you can lay a boundary and
you can say
you know mom if we're talking about
coming home from the holidays like what
is this conversation about
why are you calling are you trying to
convince me to come home from the
holidays go meta
just ask your parent like what is this
what are we doing what's the purpose of
this conversation
and then lay your boundary okay so then
they're like yeah well we are talk well
i'm
we're talking about the holidays and
you're like i'm not interested in
talking about that i'm gonna hang up the
phone now
if you want to talk about other stuff
i'm totally fine with that
and then you hang up so lay a boundary
right so this also involves a certain
amount of
power dynamics and independence on your
part
and then you know mom will call back a
little bit later and so once again kind
of go meadow what are we talking about
mom yeah i'm not comfortable with that
i'm gonna hang up the phone and so then
eventually
the parent will like ask why are you
doing this
why are you doing this to me why are you
being like this
you can say yeah the reason i don't want
to come home for the holidays is because
you don't respect my boundaries
and then the parent is like okay fine
i'll respect your boundaries fine
fine just tell me like how to respect
your boundaries
and so then you can say this is one of
my favorite interactions
so what have i told you is my boundary
about coming home
in conversations about coming home and
then they're like you said that
you don't want to talk about coming home
and you don't want to come home
good how can you respect my boundary
around that
not talk to you about coming home and
not pressure you to come up
excellent but then what about coming
home exactly mom
now do you get it this is the problem
when
i share something with you about the
boundary they have
i have you are willing to say that
you're gonna do anything
you'll respect my boundaries you'll do
you'll respect any boundary that i set
except for the one that you don't
respect
right and like this is the key thing is
like it's about understanding right
so like when you get to that point and
like you you just
share with your parents you're like yeah
so and they're like how do i get you to
come
what do i have to do to get you to come
and this is where like that you can say
you can't part of respecting my
boundaries is respecting my decision
that i'm not gonna come
and if you can do that i think we can
have a relationship
if not i think it's not going to be
it's not going to be much of a
relationship
right so this is really challenging but
when dealing with entitled parents once
again don't try to convince them
don't try to tell them hey it's like a
bad idea for me to come
i don't want to come here's why i don't
want to come
here's why coming is a bad idea for me i
want you to
just like like don't try to convince
them of anything
okay just get them to think and the way
that you get them to think
is by asking them questions like what is
the nature of our relationship
what is the what what is going on chat
what clip city what are you guys talking
okay oh coming home for the holidays
chad come on
jesus okay i'm gonna keep going all
right
i'm gonna just keep plowing forward okay
just keep
keep plowing forward okay let's keep
going okay so number one
ask about the nature of the relationship
number two
talk a little bit about like what is the
nature of how agreements and
disagreements are resolved
who gets to decide and this is the
really tricky thing is as you guys have
conversations about this
you know it's like completely fine to
have a conversation about it like it's
gonna
we'll get to a couple of other points
about why these conversations are hard
but you just want to bring it to the
surface about how the decision gets made
so is it because they're parents is it
because you live under their house like
that's fine right like
if you can't if that's the power dynamic
that exists
and you don't have power in the
relationship there's really not much you
can do about it which is feels bad man
okay so like sag but that's the truth of
it at least acknowledge it
and then the third thing that's really
really helpful in terms of getting
entitled parents to really like think
is to ask them like what do you imagine
our
relationship is going to be like two
years from now five years from now 10
years from now
and then if you want to you can ask them
is it okay if i share my perspective
and so then they say of course you can
share your perspective and then you
could say well so like
i think that are in this relationship i
don't feel respected
so i think that you have power and i
don't
but the reason that we maintain this
relationship is because i don't have a
choice i feel like i'm a hostage
which is fine it's just you know as i
start to gain independence
i'm not sure how much of a relationship
i want to have
and you have to be really careful about
saying something like that especially if
there's a power dynamic or something
like that
you have to be able to sort of determine
your parents ability to tolerate that
kind of statement
but i think it is a really useful
question
um to sort of ask your parents like what
do you imagine
our relationship is going to look like
five years from now 10 years from now
and you know what how is that
relationship going to be different from
this one
and it's been my experience that when
you stop trying to convince them and
invite them to like really understand
and you
also try to understand you genuinely try
to understand their perspective like it
actually
really helps move things in the right
direction
so a couple of caveats okay the first is
that this is very
very hard so like a big part of these
conversations
involves grieving and letting go
and accepting that your parent is not
going to say
what you want them to say right so
that's really tough like it's hard
to sit down in a conversation and
recognize that your parent has
power over you whether it be financial
or like
other kinds of power and that like
you're the weak person in the
relationship
the interesting thing is that like as
you start to like accept that and admit
that
and actually come to that conclusion
with your parent the relationship can
feel a lot less burdensome because
oftentimes what i find is that people
are like
they're so upset by the injustice of it
which absolutely like you should be
upset by the injustice of it
but you being upset by the injustice
doesn't actually by itself change the
injustice
right i know it sounds kind of weird
like this is something that i know is
confusing for the internet
but outrage does not make the world a
better place
it is the actions that follow outrage
that either make the world a better
place or a worse place
right because there are a lot of actions
that come out of a feeling of outrage or
injustice
that actually can make the world a worse
place
and it's really really dangerous
territory because and so this is why
like you know what i advocate for y'all
is
not necessarily to take a drastic action
because of the injustice but just
acknowledge
if your parents have the power in the
relationship just acknowledge that they
have it
and what power do you have in the
relationship now
you have the power of memory right so
you are going to remember
how they treat you and how they treat
you today
is going to a certain degree so the
karmic seeds for how you treat them
tomorrow
and this is the main this is really only
like the only
leverage that you have if you're in a
large like power dynamic
relationship and so this is kind of the
sort of thing that like you just need to
share with them like okay if this is
what the relationship is like
what do you imagine it going because
basically
you know i feel like our connection is a
lot
is very circumstantial like i'm here
because i have to be here
but i don't feel like you all respect me
as people like you don't respect me as a
person
you don't respect my opinions you don't
care to listen to them or understand
them which is my observation
i don't need to convince you that you
should be listening to me
so don't go down that route which is
like very dangerous right because it's
easy to go down that route where you can
say
this has been my observation because
when you tell me to do something and i
disagree like i don't want to be
a doctor but you tell me that i have to
major in this
so that's an example of me not
respecting y'all not respecting
my opinion and then this is where they
go down the tangent of but no but it's
good for you like we know better we're
your parents you can say like yeah i'm
not
i'm not debating that you guys have been
alive longer than i have
and that you may know better than i do
but i'm still not hearing you guys like
ask or care about what i what i want
right so you guys are operating from you
know better
but i'm not hearing anything about what
i want
and so you can point that out right
that's the nature of the relationship
decisions get made by their subjective
sense of what is better as opposed to
what you want
and so then like later on you can kind
of let them know okay so like you guys
believe this but you don't
do you all see how it doesn't appear to
me like you guys care about what i want
you guys are valuing better over
want right what i care about is not as
important as what you guys think is good
for me
which is fine let's just call it what it
is
and so over time yeah so someone's
saying
like my parents don't believe that their
their view is subjective which is fair
right so like that's a fair point of
view you don't need to argue with them
about that they say
we've been alive we are higher level
than you are we have more xp
therefore we know better if i am you
know
diamond league in law and your bronze
league in law
i may know more about the game than you
do so you don't want to go down that
road of whether they're objectively
correct or subjectively correct or
whatever
the the argument that you want to go
down or like the point that you want to
make is like
you guys are operating on a belief of
what's better and i'm operating on a
belief of like
what i want to do right if i want to
play techies
i'm going to play techies forget that it
ruins everyone else's game
so so this is kind of like this is my
kind of guidebook to dealing with
entitled parents right
which is like so notice the nature of
the relationship
like ask them okay what's going on here
acknowledge the power dynamics
so that's sort of like when we have a
disagreement how does the decision get
made and then
invite your parents to think a little
bit about how this relationship is going
to evolve over time
so this is also where you don't want to
punish them right so you got to be
really careful here because it can turn
into a
if you don't let me do this i'm going to
cut you out of my life that's not what
you want to do you don't want to be like
emotional about it
you don't want to threaten them you just
want to say like okay so
you know what do you imagine this is
going to look like and i'm not so sure
that like i'm going to be comfortable
with that kind of relationship as i
become more independent
what do you think about that right
and so the conversation should be calm
it should be collected you have to let
go of your own emotions
right acknowledge that your parents may
not care about your opinion
acknowledge that you're the weak party
in the relationship and recognize that
time is on your side right so as as you
get older you will
gradually gain more independence you
have more independence in college than
you did in high school
you have more independence after college
than you did
you know during college as you become
financially independent then you will
have
even more you know control over your own
life
and the main message that you want to
get across to them is not that you're
going to cut them out because you don't
want to threaten them
because if you threaten them that's
going to evoke their defensiveness and
whatever narcissism is there
will come out swinging if you kind of
threaten them so you don't want to do
that you just want to invite them to
think
that's the goal not to convince to
invite them to think
so what do you guys think is going to
happen